the definitive 50 with your host Newt
this is it folks we're now at the top 10
greatest Super Nintendo games of all
time and coming in a 10th place on the
list of definitive 50 SNES games he's
super Mayer world - Yoshi's Island
released in North America in October
1995 Yoshi's Island is a slightly
different take on the typical Mario
formula in this game the player takes
control of Yoshi in an effort to rescue
baby Luigi and return the mario brothers
to their expectant parents the game's
title is confused players since release
with many gamers wondering it is more
correct to drop the super buyer world to
portioning although still a 2d
side-scroller and every bit as fun and
high-quality as any other Mario game
Yoshi's and of course because Yoshi
rather than Mario as its main playable
character it's gameplay also differs in
a number of respects from the
mustachioed plumbers typical Affairs
whether you want to think of this game
as a true sequel to Super Mario World or
a spinoff from the usual franchise this
game's quality shines worried
Yoshi's Islands graphical style is often
held up as one of the most beautiful in
gaming history it may come as a surprise
to know that this game takes advantage
of the super FX chip Yoshi's Island used
the chip to allow more advanced right
scaling and morphing the visuals are
simple
it's stunning this game features
brightly colored characters and
environments made to appear as crayon
drawings as the story goes shigeru
miyamoto the game's producer was
instructed to make his new Mario game
look more like the highly successful
Donkey Kong Country Miyamoto not being a
fan of rares game took the art direction
as far from that pre-rendered style as
he could the results of that incident
led to the creation of the timeless
graphics Nelson fondly remembered in
this game here players guide Yoshi
across 2d levels generally from left to
right popping on enemies and avoiding
hazards along the way what's new are
some of the green dinosaur moves such as
his ability to turn swallowed enemies
into eggs which you can then fired
objects and other enemies he or she can
also flutter in the air for a pseudo
flying move and ground pound Yoshi also
does not really take damage from contact
with enemies but those events do cause
him to lose control of Mario in these
situations I hope against floating away
in a bubble it's up to the player to
scramble over and grab him before a
brief time Allowance winds down a
greater emphasis is also placed on
simple puzzles and level exploration as
well as collecting to get through the
game's levels and beat the final boss is
a fun experience certainly but a fairly
easy task the game to do the challenge
is ignore me back to collect the flowers
red points and stars is scattered across
every level at the completion of each
level a score is displayed for the
player based on the number of these
items collected with the maximum being
100 - truly master Yoshi's Island is to
score 100 on every level and unlock the
additional challenges hidden away
as reward for doing so
Super Mario World to Yoshi's Island may
or may not be a true Mario game in many
regards measured on Paul IV alone
however it competes with the other
famous titles in that lineage and
deserves to be counted among the finest
Super Nintendo games ever made check
back next week for entry number 9 on the
definitive 50 SNES games